To understand this specification and the program, readers are assumed to have the fundamental knowledge about MDP and Q-learning as well as the basic concept like V value, Q value, 𝛾 (discount rate), exploiting, exploring, etc.

This document serves as a technical specification and user guidance for the C++ program. The program has an environment and a Learningstrategy. The Learningstrategy, which can be markov decision process (MDP) agent or Q-learning agent in the current version, will look for the optimal scenarios in the environment under given circumstances. In principle, the program allows to implement their own environments as subclasses of env_base upon their needs. These user-implemented environments should be compatible with the MDP and Q-learning agent as long as the appropriate interface is followed. It is recommended to read "Operator Decision-Making Support C++ Script Specification.docx" for betteer format and figures. This readme.md will be a plain text version of the word document.

Environment: All the environments will be subclasses of the abstract base class, env_base, defined in env_base.h and env_base.cpp.  env_base only defines the interface of the environment class, but the functions are not implemented (i.e. it is an abstract class). In principle, the Learningstrategies should be compatible with all environments following the interface defined in env_base (I.e. subclasses of env_base). As an example, env_gridworld implemented in “env_gridworld.h/cpp” is a subclass of env_base’s. Note that only the important functions are shown in the diagram for simplicity. Helper functions and debugging functions (e.g. functions to print Q values) are not shown.  Check the corresponding .h and .cpp files for more details.

State and Action: A state and an action should be defined for each environment. For example, a state in gridworld describes the coordinate and an action in gridworld describes the direction to go. For class function parameter compatibility, two base classes, state_base and action_base, are defined in env_state.h/cpp. The state and action of each environment should be defined as subclasses of state_base and action_base. Pointers of the base classes (action_base* and state_base*) are used as parameters and return types of any functions so as to be compatible with the program’s interface.

LearningStrategy
